#Environment Setup

Term 1 of the course will require Python 2, Python 3, OpenCV, Tensorflow, Keras, MoviePy and juptyer. 

# OS Choice - Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS. 

The environment can also be build on Windows with Docker. 
I had a lot of issues with Docker setup and found Ubuntu to be a much smoother option. 

Step 1 - Installing Python 2.7

i) Navigate to https://www.continuum.io/ , download Anaconda Package for Python 2.7 and install it.
This completes Python 2.7 installation in your local host.

Step 2 - Installing Python 3.5

In Terminal Type "conda create -n SDCenvr python=3.5 anaconda"

This creates a new conda environment namely , 'SDCenvr' having python 3.5 installed.

Post execution of the above command above you will get something like this To activate this environment , use:

$source activate SDCenvr

To deactivate this environment , use:

$source deactivate

Step 3 - Installing TensorFlow

i) In the Terminal Type $ conda install -c conda-forge tensorflow

Step 4.-Keras

i) In the terminal Type

pip install keras

Once you hit the above command , will get to see something like the below(these are few lines at the end):
Successfully built keras theano
Installing collected packages: theano, keras
Successfully installed keras-1.1.0 theano-0.8.2
Generally , we have two backend-frameworks for keras , one is TensorFlow and the other Theano. In SDCND , we shall be using TensorFlow
Hence , there is a need to change the backend from theano to TF.

ii) Type
KERAS_BACKEND=tensorflow python -c "from keras import backend; print(backend._BACKEND)"

Output:
Using TensorFlow backend.

Now , the backend for keras is successfully changed to TF.

Step 5.-Installing OpenCV

In the terminal Type
conda install -c menpo opencv3=3.1.0

Step 6 - Installing Moviepy

In the terminal type pip install moviepy

We installed all the softwares in our localhost using conda environment.

Step 7 : Opening the code in a Jupyter Notebook
You will complete this project in a Jupyter notebook.
Anaconda comes with jupyter. Test it out with the following command. 

> jupyter notebook
A browser window will appear showing the contents of the current directory.
